README.adoc, before:

*tlbx* is a tool that facilitates creating and using mutable, persistent
Linux container environments. Because it is a wrapper for
https://podman.io/[podman], using it does not require root privilege.

tlbx is inspired by https://github.com/containers/toolbox[containers/toolbox],
but differs in that tlbx does not require a specially prepared container
image. (Similarites to https://github.com/coreos/toolbox[coreos/rhcos-toolbox]
are also apparent.) tlbx can work with any
https://www.opencontainers.org/[OCI] image, including CentOS and Ubuntu.

= Why

tlbx is valuable for use cases such as:

. Systems on which installing applications is difficult or discouraged, such
as https://silverblue.fedoraproject.org/[Fedora Silverblue].
. Systems on which you do not have the administrative ability to install
applications.
. Setting up a development environment which you intend to back up or deploy
to other systems. If you don't know all the applications that will be required
_a priori_, you can set up a tlbx as an ongoing work in progress. When it
needs to move, `podman commit` the container and `skopeo copy` the resulting
image.
. Quickly accessing packages that aren't readily available from your distro's
default repositories, but which are available from a fast-moving or less
restrictive distro such as https://archlinux.org[Arch Linux].
. Any situation in which you want to use a packaged application but don't want
to run the package manager as root, such as trying out an unfamiliar app.

= Installing
Copy to a directory in `PATH`, such as `~/.local/bin`. Podman is the only
requirement. Currently there are no distro packages available for tlbx itself.

= Usage
* `tlbx create [-i IMGNAME] [-c CONTAINERNAME] [-h HOSTNAME]`

Example: `tlbx create -i centos:8 -c centosbox`

The default image is https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine[Docker's official Alpine
Linux]. The default container name is `-tlbx` appended to the image name,
excluding the image tag. The default hostname is `tlbx`.

* `tlbx enter [PODMAN_EXEC_OPTS...] CONTAINERNAME CMD [ARGS...]`

Example: `tlbx enter -it centos bash -l`

The `-i` and `-t` podman options are required for an interactive shell session.
A tlbx container can be entered concurrently from multiple ttys, and the entry
command doesn't have to be a shell, or interactive.

* `tlbx list`

The list subcommand shows the subset of podman containers that are labeled with
`com.gitlab.uppercat.tlbx`. This label is applied automatically by
`tlbx create`.

* `tlbx destroy [-f] CONTAINERNAME [CONTAINERNAME...]`

Example: `tlbx destroy centosbox`

If the container is running (because it has been entered), the `-f` switch is
required. `tlbx destroy` can only affect containers created with `tlbx create`,
because it filters for the `com.gitlab.uppercat.tlbx` label.

// vim: set ft=asciidoc tw=78:

Commit message:

Implement and document option to not bind $HOME. Closes #3
Also, there is no need to pass the container name to tlbx-init, so don't.

README.adoc, after:

*tlbx* is a tool that facilitates creating and using mutable, persistent
Linux container environments. Because it is a wrapper for
https://podman.io/[podman], using it does not require root privilege.

tlbx is inspired by https://github.com/containers/toolbox[containers/toolbox],
but differs in that tlbx does not require a specially prepared container
image. (Similarites to https://github.com/coreos/toolbox[coreos/rhcos-toolbox]
are also apparent.) tlbx can work with any
https://www.opencontainers.org/[OCI] image, including CentOS and Ubuntu.

= Why

tlbx is valuable for use cases such as:

. Systems on which installing applications is difficult or discouraged, such
as https://silverblue.fedoraproject.org/[Fedora Silverblue].
. Systems on which you do not have the administrative ability to install
applications.
. Setting up a development environment which you intend to back up or deploy
to other systems. If you don't know all the applications that will be required
_a priori_, you can set up a tlbx as an ongoing work in progress. When it
needs to move, `podman commit` the container and `skopeo copy` the resulting
image.
. Quickly accessing packages that aren't readily available from your distro's
default repositories, but which are available from a fast-moving or less
restrictive distro such as https://archlinux.org[Arch Linux].
. Any situation in which you don't want to run the package manager as root,
such as using an app you might not trust. In such a case you may also consider
the `-n` option to `tlbx create`.

= Installing
Copy to a directory in `PATH`, such as `~/.local/bin`. Podman is the only
requirement. Currently there are no distro packages available for tlbx itself.

= Usage
* `tlbx create [-i IMGNAME] [-c CONTAINERNAME] [-h HOSTNAME] [-n]`

Example: `tlbx create -i centos:8 -c centosbox`

The default image is https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine[Docker's official Alpine
Linux]. The default container name is `-tlbx` appended to the image name,
excluding the image tag. The default hostname is `tlbx`.

Your home directory is bind-mounted to the container unless the `-n` switch is
passed.

* `tlbx enter [PODMAN_EXEC_OPTS...] CONTAINERNAME CMD [ARGS...]`

Example: `tlbx enter -it centosbox bash -l`

The `-i` and `-t` podman options are required for an interactive shell session.
A tlbx container can be entered concurrently from multiple ttys, and the entry
command doesn't have to be a shell, or interactive.

* `tlbx list`

The list subcommand shows the subset of podman containers that are labeled with
`com.gitlab.uppercat.tlbx`. This label is applied automatically by
`tlbx create`.

* `tlbx destroy [-f] CONTAINERNAME [CONTAINERNAME...]`

Example: `tlbx destroy centosbox`

If the container is running (because it has been entered), the `-f` switch is
required. `tlbx destroy` can only affect containers created with `tlbx create`,
because it filters for the `com.gitlab.uppercat.tlbx` label.

// vim: set ft=asciidoc tw=78:
